#  CRM Analytics
This is a repository used for the Data Advanced Analytics business challenge of iFood (public - spontaneous candidature). Also, I'll be using it to develop some interesting ideas about this project, from exploration phase (notebooks) to an application for marketing team (data product).

### About the Company
iFood is the lead food delivery app in Brazil, present in over a thousand cities.
Keeping a high customer engagement is key for growing and consolidating the company’s
position as the market leader.

Data Analysts working within the data team are constantly challenged to provide insights and
value to the company through open scope projects. This case intends to simulate that.
In this case, you are presented a sample dataset, that mocks metainformation on the customer
and on iFood campaign interactions with that customer.

It is your challenge to understand the data, find business opportunities & insights and to propose
any data driven action to optimize the campaigns results & generate value to the company.

### Data Source 
https://github.com/ifood/ifood-data-business-analyst-test


### Solution Planning

Since the business case is composed by 4 parts, I will split the problem in 3 different notebooks to be well organized and structured and later the python codes for the end-to-end application. The goal of the data analysis notebook will be analyze the provided dataset and understand the data. Also,  it is necessary to create some hypothesis, validate it using exploratory data analysis and extract some actionable insights. The second part is using some methods to create cluster of clients according to the profile and use it to create some recommendations for the marketing campaign. It should increase the profit, since we are aiming specific clients. The last part of exploration will be the predictive model, joining the results generated by the clustering modelization, we can predict if the client will accept the next offer and then calculate the business impact based on the inputs of the dataset. Since we have all exploration phases validated, let's build a data produt using Streamlit!


#### 1. Planning of Data Analysis (EXPLORATION) [OK] 
- Business understanding and context
- Describe Data
- Hypothesis Creation
- Feature Engineering
- Filtering Variables
- Exploratory Data Analysis

#### 2. Planning of Clustering (EXPLORATION) [OK] 
- Data Preparation
- Feature Selection
- Modeling Cluster
- Cluster Analysis
- Recommendations


#### 3. Planning of Predictive Model (EXPLORATION) [TO BE DONE]
- Data Preparation
- Feature Selection
- Machine Learning Modeling
- Hyper parameters Fine-Tunning
- Evaluation
- Business Impact


#### 4. Creating a Data Product [TO BE DONE]
- Building Ingestion Pipeline 
- Building ETL Pipelines
- Building Model Pipelines
- Orchestration 
- End-to-end Application with Streamlit 
- Deployment with Docker on EC2 or Local Machine 


### Analysis & Insights Storytelling
[[PT-BR] Alavancando Insights de Campanhas de Marketing - Parte 1](https://medium.com/@indatawetrust.idwt/alavancando-insights-de-campanhas-de-marketing-com-an%C3%A1lise-explorat%C3%B3ria-e-shap-explainable-ai-207ae7e7b97c)


[[EN-US] Leveraging Marketing Campaign Insights — Part 1](https://medium.com/@indatawetrust.idwt/en-us-leveraging-marketing-campaigns-insights-with-exploratory-analysis-and-shap-explainable-942989a49f41)


### Clustering Storytelling
[[PT-BR] Aprimorando a Estratégia de Marketing com Ciência de Dados: Priorizando Clientes e Entregando o que Eles Querem Comprar — Parte 2](https://medium.com/@indatawetrust.idwt/pt-br-aprimorando-a-estrat%C3%A9gia-de-marketing-com-ci%C3%AAncia-de-dados-priorizando-clientes-e-1bf6bf654a10)

[[EN-US] Enhancing Marketing Strategy with Data Science: Prioritizing Customers and Delivering What They Want to Buy — Part 2](https://medium.com/@indatawetrust.idwt/enhancing-marketing-strategy-with-data-science-prioritizing-customers-and-delivering-what-they-b4cb32670a0f)

### Authors
 [@jooaobrum](https://linkedin.com/in/jooaobrum)

[def]: https://www.cora.com.br/blog/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Imagem-Ifood-red-1.png
